---
title: 'HIghlights of 2019'
date: 2019-12-31
permalink: /posts/2018/05/blog-post-2/highlights-of-2019
redirect_from: /posts/2019/12/blog-post-2/
---

2019 for me was a year, I wouldn't say of failures but it taught me how not to do certain things in certain ways. A lot happened in the span of 12 months which I'll mention in a timeline format.

It started with a trip to Lansdowne though it was in dec-2018 but I'll count it here anyways coz its my blog (lol!). It was fun being the first trip with college friends. We stayed in tents on the bank of a river/canal whose water was crystal clear. We had bonfire, bathed in that river with chilled water and our car got stalled on our way back. All in all, it was supreme fun.
In March I and jha started the company which apparently was discussed for more than a year. Perhaps it was a decision made too quick. Things weren't going well although a website was in place but I think I misjudged our pace and person-finding ability was also not good, maybe jha isn't the person who takes certain things seriously for a long time or maybe his decision of joining was taken in not so rational way. The supplier was ready and we had precily (jha's contact) as our first customer but things didn't turn up the way we predicted and after 1-2 months of constant calling and assisting the order got to somebody else and that was almost 200k worth of goods. We planned for b2c initially but realized the fact that we need funds to run this in that way and his mind although working for the company from outside but on the inside he wasn't sure for anything. We made lakshay to join us but he's surely not a startup person and more of a task assignment person. Not a blame game but I realized few things, firstly I work better when alone, second choose a right person and not on the basis of who is saying yes.
In summer I got internship for a company called deepsync, a small startup with essentially 2-3 people. Their tech and ideation was good but it lacked core engineering and experience. They were funded and featured in many blogs and vc competitions but I doubt their existence after few years. The man who called himself the ceo was fuckin prick, there was no office in place but a small apartment from where I worked, it was just me and him and not even the engg head worked from that shitty place. He was arrogant and had a mindset of heirarchies. Nevertheless the learning I got squared that, I learned about pytorch systems,speech processing,adaptive tts systems and many more things. It was good. And yes, out of nowhere I met a girl while returning from that office in the bus and guess what, she gave me her number without asking, although I couldn't put that number into use.
After it concluded, my college started and eventually exams. Completed my copy paste minor project and found a really great topic for research paper, wavelet transformations. I will start working on this in early 2020 and hopefully will able to publish it in a good journal.
I also got rejected from Atlan after clearing their tasks and statistic question round. Don't know about reasons for that. I think the call was very short to put my name in her mind, well that's what I thing because there was hardly any technical question that she asked.
After exmas in December my article for TDS about classification metrics got published which is a great note to end the year on a high regardless of what happened in the past months.
