---
title: "p-value simplified"
date: 2018-12-19
permalink: /posts/2018/12/blog-post-9/h0-pvalues
redirect_from: /posts/2018/12/blog-post-9/
tags:
  - Statistics
  - Hypothesis Testing
  - P-values
---

The isn't a post where you can expect a complete theoretical breakdown of the concept and along with that, your brain. Motive behind this excerpt is to simply put words to p-value to understand it more on a layman's terms.

When we talk about p-values whether its calculated from a t-statistic or Z or ANOVA, carries a simple meaning of proving if the null hypothese (H0) will hold true or not. Or speaking in the words of statisticians we either "reject the null hypothesis" or we "fail to reject null hypothesis". The terminology exists in a weird but logical way. 
Eg. Hypothetically you are selected for a manned moon mission (I said hypothetically!) to find water. Now your hypothesis (Apparantly you have to have a hypothesis because what you'll tell the media if the rocket wont start?:P) will be:<br>
**H0:** There's water on the moon<br>
**Ha:** There's no water on the moon<br>
Now you get off the space shuttle and start searching for traces of water on the surface. Now since you have limited resources you can encircle the whole lunar surface (unless you get company), you go back to your shuttle and press the NO WATER button. But the story doesnt end here. Since you didn't visited every corner of this square shaped moon you didn't had enough data to support your claims. Now since not enough data was observed its safe to say that "WE FAILED TO REJECT H0".

Now we'll get to how p-values can be used to support these hypothesis numerically and actually prove something by putting you into a rocket.
Another Eg. Pizzzzaaaaaa!! 
Suppose a pizza place claims their delivery times are 30 minutes or less on average but you think it’s more than that. So you conduct a hypothesis test and randomly sample some delivery times to test the claim:<br>

1. `Null hypothesis` — The mean delivery time is 30 minutes or less, mean<=30<br>
   `Alternative hypothesis` — The mean delivery time is greater than 30 minutes, mean>30<br>

2. `Significance Level = 0.05` - This is the threshold value (google it!)

3. Draw a **Random Sample** (in favour of Ha supposedly):
```
n=100
xbar= 32mins (>30 any value)
std = 7mins
```
p-value will be given by = P(X>30 | H0). In plain english, p-value is a conditional probability of finding the random sample mean from sampling distribution of sample mean given that null hypothesis holds true.

Now we'll draw samples from this data and by central limit theorem it'll be a nice Normal Distribution. We'll calculate standard error (std of this sample but called an error because its approximated) of this distribution and identify how many std's away our sample mean is from the intended mean.
```
std_error = std/sqrt(n)
std_error = 7/sqrt(100)
std_error = 0.7
```

```
Z = (32-30)/0.7
Z = 2/0.7
Z ~ 3
```
Since we're considering upward extreme of 30 we will concentrate on One-Tailed Test.
Now by Z-score its clear that the value 32 will occur outside or on extremes of 3stds which means the probable area it will occupy is 0.15% or 0.0015 which is far less than significance level.
We can now safely say that our H0 holds true evidently with our sample taken.